Hello. So now, let's take a look at
one small tool that you can use to quickly analyze the DICOM dataset.
This tool is called MicroDICOM.
It's a free tool, although it's not open source.
It is not a full fledged medical imaging diagnostic viewer,
but it could be quite useful when you're trying
to make sense of a dataset that you might have.
So let me load an MR series into this viewer,
we have just talked about DICOM,
and we have talked about how DICOM has this hierarchy of patient.
That's what we can see here, patient with a name the PGBM.
We have two studies here,
and each study has a number of series here.
Let's open one series and we can see the first image of the series.
So MicroDICOM just shows you individual DICOM slice and also,
it shows you the DICOM metadata.
We have talked about DICOM data elements,
so these are the DICOM data elements that are contained in this image.
We can use our mouse to scroll through the images,
so we see different images.
One interesting thing to note here is that as we scroll through this images,
some data does not change and some data changes.
We have talked how DICOM has data redundancy,
so a lot of data is stored multiple times in multiple instances, and that's what we get.
But at the same time, things like
SOP Instance UID which is unique identifier of this instance,
it is only stored once per instance.
So we had a quick look at the tool called MicroDICOM which is a free tool.
You can download it yourself,
you can try loading some of the DICOM files that you have been exposed to so far.
Now, let's take a quick look at a more complicated tool which is called 3D Slicer.